New in Chrome 104 (#3360)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/new-in-chrome-104/index.md

---
title: New in Chrome 104
description: >

>   Chrome 104 is rolling out now! With region capture, you can now specify a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Chrome 104 is rolling out now! Region capture specifies a
```

Reviewer: Just trying to make the description a bit pithier.

>   crop area when using getDisplayMedia to capture the current tab. Media

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  crop area when using getDisplayMedia() to capture the current tab. Media
```

  query syntax can be written using mathematical comparison operators.

>   Shared Element Transitions start a new origin trial. And there's plenty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Shared Element Transitions starts an origin trial. And there's plenty
```

Reviewer: This subject-verb agreement is a tricky one. It's not the morphology of 'transitions' that governs this verb. Because "Shared Element Transitions" is a formal name, you treat the whole as a noun, not as a noun with two adjectives. "Shared Element Transitions" is a singular noun referring to the feature, so it takes a plural verb.

Reviewer: >'a new' to 'an'

This is its first origin trial.

  more.
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'
date: 2022-08-02
authors:
  - petelepage
hero: 'image/0g2WvpbGRGdVs0aAPc6ObG7gkud2/2lpDeA6BU9K7FdETYCrV.png'
alt: >
  New in Chrome hero logo
tags:
  - new-in-chrome
  - chrome-104
---

{% YouTube id='GIt-g0nkt8w' %}

Here's what you need to know:

* You can now specify a crop area using [region capture](#region-capture)

>   when using `getDisplayMedia` to capture the current tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  when using `getDisplayMedia()` to capture the current tab.
```

* Media query syntax can be written using
  [mathematical comparison operators](#mq-math).

> * [Shared Element Transitions](#shared-element-transitions) start a new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Shared Element Transitions](#shared-element-transitions) starts an
```

Reviewer: I realize this isn't what you say in the video.

  origin trial.
* And there's plenty [more](#more).

I'm [Pete LePage](https://petelepage.com). Let's dive in and
see what's new for developers in Chrome 104.

## Specify a crop area with region capture {: #region-capture }

> `getDisplayMedia` makes it possible to create a video stream from the current

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`getDisplayMedia()` makes it possible to create a video stream from the current
```

tab. But, there are times when you don’t want the entire tab, only a small
portion of it. Until now, the only way to do that was to manually crop each
video frame.

With Region Capture, a web app can define the specific area of the screen it
wants to share. For example, Google Slides could allow you to stay in the
standard editing view, and share the current slide.

<figure>

>   {% Img src="image/vvhSqZboQoZZN9wBvoXq72wzGAf1/L87rANm3IfsVZiMHfbH2.png", alt="Screenshot of a browser window featuring a web app highlighting the main content area and cross-origin iframe.", width="800", height="568" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  {% Img src="image/vvhSqZboQoZZN9wBvoXq72wzGAf1/L87rANm3IfsVZiMHfbH2.png", alt="Screenshot of a browser window featuring a web app highlighting the main content area and a cross-origin iframe.", width="800", height="568" %}
```

  <figcaption>
    The main content area is in blue and the cross-origin iframe is in red.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

To use it, select the element to share, then create a new `CropTarget` based on

> that element. Next, start screen sharing by calling `getDisplayMedia()`, that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that element. Next, start screen sharing by calling `getDisplayMedia()`. That
```

Reviewer: I think you were intending a subordinate clause to modify `getDisplayMedia()`. The correct conjunction should have been 'which', but without a comma. This suggestions fixes the grammar without changing the word.

Media Queries are critical to responsive design, allowing you to define
specific styles for different viewport sizes. But, unless you use them every
single day, the syntax can be a little confusing.

Chrome 104 adds support for [Media Queries - Level 4 - Syntax and Evaluation][mq-l4-se],
allowing you to write media queries using ordinary mathematical comparison
operators.

So instead of something like this to indicate a viewport between 400 and 600
pixels:

```css
@media (min-width: 400px) and (max-width: 600px) {
  /* Styles for viewports between 400px and 600px. */
}
```

It can be written like this:

```css
@media (400px <= width <= 600px) {
  /* Styles for viewports between 400px and 600px. */
}
```

In addition to making media queries less verbose, the new syntax can be more
accurate. The `min-` and `max-` queries are inclusive, for example:
`min-width: 400px` tests for a width of 400px or greater. The new syntax
allows you to be more explicit about what you mean.

```css
@media (width < 400px) {
  /* Styles for viewports less than 400px. */
}
@media (400px <= width <= 600px) {
  /* Styles for viewports between 400px and 600px. */
}

> @media (601px <= width <= 1000px) {

Reviewer: Is this on screen in the video? My first though was , why didn't he change the inclusivity on the third example? Then, "Oh, duh." I wonder if this jumps out better:

`@media (600px < width <= 1000px)`

Author: Yes, it's on screen.

  /* Styles for viewports between 601px and 1000px. */
}
```

It's already supported in Firefox, and there’s a
[PostCSS plugin](https://github.com/postcss/postcss-media-minmax) that will
re-write the new syntax to the old syntax, ensuring browser compatibility!

Check out Rachel’s article
[New syntax for range media queries in Chrome 104](/blog/media-query-range-syntax/)
for more details.

## Shared Element Transitions start new origin trial {: #shared-element-transitions }

Platform specific apps typically have smooth transitions between different views,
they look beautiful, they keep the user in context, and they help the
experience feel more performant. Whereas on the web, a full navigation can be
harsh, and sometimes means a momentary blank screen. For a single page app,
it can be better, but transitions are still hard.

Shared Element Transitions, starting a new [origin trial][set-ot] in Chrome

> 104, allow you to provide smooth transitions, regardless of whether the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
104, allows you to provide smooth transitions, regardless of whether the
```

transitions are cross-document (for example in a multi-page app), or
intra-document (for example in a single page app).

Here’s a rough example of how transitions work for a single page app. In the
navigate function, get the new page content, then check to see if transitions
are supported, if not, update the page without a transition. If they are,
create a `transition()` and call `start()` on it, letting the API know when
the DOM change is complete.

```js
async function spaNavigate(path) {
  // Get new page content.
  const data = await fetchPage(path);

  // Check if transitions are supported, if not, use classic method.
  if (!document.createDocumentTransition) {
    await updateDOM(data);
    return;
  }

  // Create transition
  const transition = document.createDocumentTransition();

  // Start transition, let API know when DOM change is complete.
  transition.start(() => updateDOM(data));
}
```

{% Columns %}
{% Column %}

> Under the hood, Shared Element Transitions use CSS Animations, so you can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under the hood, Shared Element Transitions uses CSS Animations, so you can
```

change from a fade in effect, to slide in, or whatever you want.
{% endColumn %}

{% Column %}
{% Video src="video/0g2WvpbGRGdVs0aAPc6ObG7gkud2/6qxo2mCaOZH887Lw75VU.mp4", autoplay="true", loop="true", muted="true" %}
{% endColumn %}
{% endColumns %}

I’ve just scratched the surface, so check out Jake’s video
[Bringing Page Transitions to the Web](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JCJUPJ_zDQ4),
or dive into the [explainer][set-explainer].

## And more! {: #more }

Of course there's plenty more.

* When cookies are set with an explicit `Expires` or `Max-Age` attribute,

>   the value will now be capped to no more than 400 days.

Reviewer: The beta post has an explanation of why 400 days. Don't know if it's worth linking to. https://blog.chromium.org/search/label/beta#:~:text=the%20spec.-,400%20days%20was%20chosen,-as%20a%20round

Author: prob not.

> * There are enhancements to the multi-screen window placement API.

Reviewer: There's a demo for this: https://michaelwasserman.github.io/window-placement-demo/

Author: i generally don't link to these, and would rather link to an article that explains the whole thing, but we don't have that as far as i know

* And the `overflow-clip-margin` CSS property specifies how far an element's
  content is allowed to paint before being clipped.

## Further reading

This covers only some of the key highlights. Check the links below for
additional changes in Chrome 104.

* [What's new in Chrome DevTools (104)](/blog/new-in-devtools-104/)

> * [Chrome 104 deprecations and removals](/blog/deps-rems-104/)

Reviewer: Beta post? https://blog.chromium.org/search/label/beta

Author: i generally don't link to those, but will make a point going forward.

> * [ChromeStatus.com updates for Chrome 104](https://www.chromestatus.com/features#milestone%3D104)

Reviewer: I'm going back to make sure everything in 104 was marked on Chrome Status. This doesn't always happen (which is why I formed a committee).

* [Chromium source repository change list](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+log/103.0.5060.60..104.0.5112.84)
* [Chrome release calendar](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/schedule)

## Subscribe

To stay up to date, [subscribe](https://goo.gl/6FP1a5) to the
[Chrome Developers YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/user/ChromeDevelopers/),
and you'll get an email notification whenever we launch a new video.

I'm Pete LePage, and as soon as Chrome 105 is released, I'll be right here to
tell you what's new in Chrome!

[mq-l4-se]: https://www.w3.org/TR/mediaqueries-4/#mq-range-context
[set-explainer]: https://github.com/WICG/shared-element-transitions/blob/main/explainer.md

> [set-ot]: https://developer.chrome.com/origintrials/#/view_trial/1762033354208706561

Author: ```suggestion
[set-ot]: /origintrials/#/view_trial/1762033354208706561
```
